# Romanian-Sign-Language-Image-Classification
This repository contains the dataset and the Jupyter notebooks in which the experiments were run for recognizing Romanian Sign Language (RSL) alphabet. 

## Setup 
In order to run the Jupyter notebooks in this repo, please clone it in a Google Colab with the following comand:
```
!git clone https://github.com/Emilia-Maria/Romanian-Sign-Language-Image-Classification.git
```
You might need to change your paths if they are not the same. All the experiments were ran using Google Colab, might not work if used in other environments.

## Folder structure
```
Romanian-Sign-Language-Image-Classification/
├── models/
├── Ro_Sign_language_Dataset/
│   ├── test/
│   ├── train/
│   └── validation/
├── saves/
└── utils_fn/
    ├── generate_classification_report.py
    ├── generate_dataset.py
    ├── plot_confusion_matrix.py
    ├── plot_history.py
    └── predict_image.py
```
#### models
It contains all the Jupyter notebooks, one for each experiment.
#### Ro_Sign_language_Dataset
It contains the data divided into train / validation / test. Each subfolder contains a folder for each letter.
#### saves
It contains the .keras / .h5 and .npy file, for loading a model's configuration / weights (either in .keras or .h5 format) and the history with the loss and metrics values.
#### utils_fn
It contains utily code used in the Jupyter notebooks.
- `generate_classification_report.py` - this file generates a classification report.
- `generate_dataset` - this file generates a Dataset used in training/evaluating the models.
- `plot_confusion_matrix` - this file plots a confusion matrix
- `plot_history` - this file plots the history object generated by a model
- `predict_image` - this file can be used to generate a prediction based on a specified loaded model and a new image
